So we added this image validation and we show an error if we don't have the image, we also added the
firebase storage package already.
So let's now make sure we can also upload an image.
For that back and forth for him, we do collect that user image file and we validated here, and if
we make it past this validation and everything is valid, we want to make sure that we do actually also
provides that image file to the off screen, because in the off screen we send all that data to Firebase
and uploading the image will now simply be an extra step we should perform here.
We can't, of course, past the image Kutty of screen, just as we passed the other data here, when
we call that government function, which we get from the off screen besides passing in user email,
password and username, we can also pass in our user image file.
And this might be null if we are logging in, but we can simply make sure that we don't care about the
file in the off screen, in the log, in case.
Now, of course, this currently doesn't meet or doesn't fit our function signature.
We should make it clear here when we define you submit a form that after the username we expect to get
an image file.
But now we also need to adjust this in the off screen.
Of course, dear.
We also need to add this on the submit off form method here.
We should expect an image file and file, as you learned, is of course, imported from darte.
I like this.
So now we get this image file and yes, it might be null in the log in case, but we don't care about
this, we won't use the image there anyways.
But with that provided here, it should be available if we are signing up.
And therefore, here in the sign up process, we now want to upload the image and I want to upload the
image before we write all that extra data to our users collection, because a path to the uploaded image
should also be something we also write to that users collection in the future.
So we want to start or perform the image upload here before we write our extra user data to the users
collection.
Now, for that, we need this extra package.
The firebase storage package and from there to Firebase Storage DARD File and that firebase storage
package can now be used here.
We use firebase storage and again, we got an instance property here just as we have it on fire store
and firebase off.
And this gives us access to this one global firebase storage instance, which is pre configured with
the token and with everything.
And there we now can call Reath.
Reath gives us access to our route cloud storage bucket and to fully understand us, let's actually
have a look at the firebase cloud storage in the firebase web console.
First there, we had a look at authentication and database.
Now we're going to work with the storage.
So let's click on storage to see how that looks like.
Now, as always here, you can learn more about it through the docs and so on.
But we can just click on get started.
And first of all, just as with the FIREBASE database, just as with Firestorm, we need to set up some
rules and we can simply click next year.
This will be the default rules and they will be fine for us and click on Down thereafter.
And this does something which is called create a bucket in firebase storage.
You can upload any kind of files, not just images.
And those files will be organized in so-called buckets.
And your firebase project comes with one bucket.
Now in that bucket, you can have sub folders and so on, but you will have this one main bucket.
And this main bucket is what Reft will refer to.
If you call it like this, it will basically point at the root bucket.
Now, in here, you can store your files.
You can also upload them manually.
You can create a folder here, as you can see, and you can do more things.
You can also add a new bucket, but that would cost you extra money.
So I wouldn't recommend doing it here, especially since you can create sub folders.
One bucket should be fine for many kinds of projects.
Now, just as your database, your storage also can be protected with rules.
And the rules generally work in a similar way as they do on Firestar, where you can dive into the docks
to learn all about them.
But you can see it looks pretty much the same here.
However, we don't operate on collections and documents, but instead on our buckets.
And we only have one bucket here, but you could have more than one.
And then our pops in the buckets, so our folders and files.
But besides that, the rules are very similar.
And here, for example, we're saying read, write, access to any file is granted if you are authenticated.
So unauthenticated requests which are not coming from Lockton users are denied.
And that's, of course, great, because we don't want anyone to upload files or to look at our files.
Only authenticated users should be able to do so.
And I will go one step further.
I will not grant right to exist here, but only create access.
So that deleting and changing files is actually not possible for anyone, because in December, let's
say, we want to allow users to upload files and to view images, but we don't want them to be able
to delete files.
We can always do this manually here from the console if we want to clean up storage.
But users won't be able to do this in this app.
But of course, you can have a very granular control and you can fine tuned this to your needs and to
your application needs with help of the official docs if you need a different setup.
So with that, however, upload and viewing of files should be enabled for authenticated users.
And now let's go back to code with Reft.
We got access to this route bucket and on the roof we can now call child.
Child simply allows us to set up a new path and that allows us to control where we want to store a file
or from where we want to read a file.
And here that would be a string.
I will point at a user images pop.
Now, this does not exist yet, but it should then automatically create such a path.
So that will create a user images folder in the end in which the image should be stored.
And Fernet.
I'll change another child call because this year.
Should be the folder where the image is stored.
Now we need to give the image a name.
So here, if I then store this as image PMG, it would create a image you file in that folder.
Now, of course, I don't want to hardcoded the image name here, though, because otherwise we would
quickly run into name clashes where we have multiple images with the same name.
Instead, I want a unique name per image.
And of course, all I want to make it easy to map this image to a user.
Hence we can simply use the user ID as a image name.
Now we get that ID from all the results here.
There we have that user field with the UID field and UID is just a string.
And all we need to do now is we need to append default extension.
And that should be Chamique because by default images taken with the device camera will be of type Chamique.
So what this does now is it sets up a pointer at this POV on our storage, but right now, of course,
this path does not exist.
We never have that folder, nor do we have that file there yet.
And this alone won't start the upload.
Instead, this returns a so-called storage reference, which is a pointer at a certain path.
So we can say the word is in a constant.
And now starts the actual upload to that path, which we now configured by calling Reath.
Put file, and this will do what the name implies, it will put a file to that path and it will use
this last segment of the path as the file name.
So in this case, the user ID with Chamique at the end.
Now, the argument we need to provide to put file is the file we want to put their.
And that's, of course, this image we're getting here.
So I'll just pass image here.
Now, you also can provide a second argument, which is storage metadata, which you could set where
you, for example, can add custom metadata, set the language of the file.
But at the moment, I don't want to do that.
Instead, I just want to upload the file like this.
And of course, putting a file takes a bit longer, which is why this returns a storage upload task.
This is not the same as a future, but it has the same idea.
Basically, unfortunately, we can't await it because it isn't a future, but we can actually.
Use the on complete property on it, which will give us a future and we can await this now, the task
itself without on complete also has more.
We can check if it's currently in progress, if it's cancelled, we can listen to various events which
are omitted, which, for example, allows us to track the upload progress.
But here I just care about the general completion, which is why I will listen to this on complete future.
We'll end with this before we do anything else, let's save that and let's see whether this works.
So let's create a new account with test forat test, dot com maybe.
Some password and with an image, of course.
Like this and let's click sign up groups, provide a valid username, let's click sign up.
And we continue.
I don't see an error here, so that's looking good and now let's reload our firebase storage view here
in the Web console and you should not see a user image folder.
And in there, this JPEG file.
And if you click on it, you should also see a preview here on the right.
And this is the file we just uploaded from our device, and that's great, because this now is the user
image we just picked.
So to file upload is working.
But of course, now we want to do more.
We want to make sure that we also get a link to this image, which we can use to load it, for example,
in our chat screen to show our image next to every message.
So that is what I want to work on next.